Okay.
Have you talked about all these things?
That's what I'm putting in there.
I must emphasize that Mr. Williams, TR as we call them, had a tremendous influence on my outlook
mainly because of the scar on my face, which I considered a hindrance, a liability to me.
And he knocked that out of my system.
And he had faith in me by taking me out at the Y camp and letting me work in the kitchen and be the cook.
And he gave me an attitude that made me feel that I was just as good
or if not better than anybody else of my age in my class.
While I was at the YMCA, my father brought out a man by the name of Mr. Karamidas, I mean the Y camp, who offered me the job.
as a truck driver in 1932 for 10 bucks a week.
So I immediately gave up my job as a cook because it was mid-summer.
And then I worked at that job until 1943.
And it was during that period that I married Georgia and had two sons, and I worked as a driver.
And then when I got out, we lived on Third Street, and it was while living with Georgia and the two kids, after I got out of the service in 1945, wait a minute, 46, and with Georgia constantly pushing me and working with me, we built up a beautiful business.
Today, we have
over 50 people working for us, and it takes in two plants, one in Lowell, one in Hyannis.
So between T.R.
Williams and Gigi, you can call him anything you want, this is why we have a very good life today.
Two good successful sons,
One's a lawyer, one is the literary editor in the Worcester Gazette.
They're on their own, they're doing a beautiful job with their lives, with their family, they're successful, and it makes us feel proud.
I can't think of any other highlights.
I think I overlooked something very important.
When I was going, when I was living up on Worthen Street, shortly after my father took me out of the home, on a Saturday morning,
I used to go up to the gas company on Rock Street with a gig or a sled with empty barrel lap bags and fill them up with coke.
We used to pay like 50 cents a bag.
And then I'd lug it all the way down Rock Street down into the neighborhood that I lived in and sell them to the neighbors for 75 cents.
And I did this every single Saturday.
And at night, like 5 o'clock, after lugging back and forth all day long and taking some of those bags up to the second and third stories of the cold water flats in that area, I'd be as black as a mine worker.
And then I'd go down to the Y at night and shower and scrub that dirt off and go up in the gym and play basketball.
Well, the Y was very, very...
It was my home, and it was very popular in those days because we didn't have the things then that we have today, such as a home, a nice warm home, a TV set.
At the Y, there was competition, there were classes according to the age group, and there was always something.
I used to set up pins in the bowling alleys, work in the checkroom,
And then when I was going to high school, I used to work in the lunchroom.
But always the predominating man in my life was T.R.
Williams, kept an eye on me.
He made sure that I didn't run around the wild kids that were going around in those days.
How many of them went to jail and got into trouble?
And I always stayed out of trouble.
Well, all right, I used to get into a lot of fights, especially the guys that called me Scarface.
But I was more or less a grandstander.
I liked to show off.
And I was looking for the slightest excuse.
I wasn't a wise guy.
I wasn't a bully.
I tried to protect kids.
That's how I met this Andy Dow.
His aunt and his grandmother made him like a Lord Fauntleroy.
And they used to make fun of his little knickers and long curls.
And I'd step in and protect him.
I couldn't get rid of the guy.
He always hung onto me like a leech.
So I didn't want to forget about that experience I had lugging coke from the Lowell Gas Company, and that's why I'm bringing it up now.
I didn't want to overlook that.
It gave me an idea of what it takes to make money.
to be in business more or less.
The only investment I had was a gig or a sled and my broad back, sturdy legs, and a desire to have money in my pocket.
I always wanted to have money in my pocket.
And I didn't want to steal like some of my other friends.
I made it hard.
And I think that that carried over when Georgia and I decided to go on our own.
My old man used to say, Johnny, the thing that talks very loud, the strongest force in the world is money in your pocket, the dollar.
It's the king of kings, he used to say.
And I can see what he means.
I guess that's true today.
If you're broke...
and you're trying to make an important point, people won't listen to you because you're broke.
You're poor.
Why should they listen to you?
But if they think you've got a buck or two, you open up your mouth, you can be absolutely stupid.
They'll listen to you because they think you're something that they can learn from.
Yeah, if I can think of anything else now, I'll put it in later.
Bye now.
I must mention this.
I just thought about it.
You know, one of the most discouraging things in life is for a man to work hard, get a good business built up, and then as the years go by, his sons...
or daughters are interested in it.
That's not the case with me.
I'm very fortunate.
My two sons are interested in the business.
My two granddaughters from George are showing interests in coming into the business.
My son Nicholas does all the
The book work, sends out the bills to the customers, keeps after the delinquents, raises the prices.
Their help is invaluable, and it's encouraging.
It makes me feel that this business can carry on long after I've gone to that great tennis court up in the sky, as Georgie used to say.
So it makes a man feel good when he's done something and he knows that some members of his family are taking an interest.
Another thought just came to me.
I might have mentioned it, but I'll repeat it if I have to.
If you want to succeed in life, you must have a reason why you are aggressive, why you pursue things, what drives you, what makes you so energetic.
Well, I had to prove that in spite of the scar, in spite of losing my mother, in spite of being in the ghetto fighting,
not knowing where your next meal was coming from many times.
You must overcome these things mentally, psychologically.
So I resorted to the YMCA with sports.
That's why I was a pretty good wrestler.
TR wouldn't let me fight.
I was a two-state diving champ.
I was a good swimmer on the swimming team.
I was eight times city champ in tennis, always to prove that I was just as good as anybody that was brought up with a family, a mother, a father, brothers, sisters, cousins, nephews.
I had to prove that a man could be just as good as any one of those kids that had everything.
And I guess I proved it all right, but I couldn't do it alone.
Without Gigi, without T.R.
Williams, without Helen Mansfield, those were the important ones.
Oh yeah, many a time if I had a shine on a certain girl and I went up to talk to her, they'd look at me and they'd sort of shudder a little.
And I would feel so embarrassed.
I said, well, maybe they're looking at me because of this ugly face I have.
But not Gigi.
When she looked at me and said, what an interesting scar you have.
Those are the little things in life that changes one's attitude.
A little remark like that.
What an interesting scar you have on your face.
That's what did it, really.
Okay?
Okay, Leah?
Bye.